---
layout: post
title: "Power of Perspective, or rather the Illusion it creates"
date: 2025-01-03 10:00:00
description: "Reflections on how impressions and selective flattery shape our behavior and humanity."
tags: reflections humanity impressions
categories:
thumbnail: assets/img/power_of_perspective.jpg
---

## The Power of Perspective, or Rather the Illusion It Creates

Ever wondered if the perspective of a family member and a co-worker of the same person could vary drastically? Ever heard of people having two faces? Ever felt that someone didn't treat you the same way they treat others? These experiences all boil down to one thing: **impressions**.

We humans live and strive to impress the ones we respect and love. More often than not, we push for the extra mile in a bid to establish ourselves in the minds of our desired people. But how often do we realize that this doesn’t make us a better person unless, and otherwise, we display the same attitude to those who are less privileged than us? Selective flattering, as I like to call it. 

> “The least prominent person in a place is the one who would have realized and experienced the true character of everyone in the room.”

So why do we so frequently prioritize a person’s status over their humanity? Isn’t this, in essence, a self-centered and selfish act? Yet, the mere thought of success seems to overpower such considerations. It’s as though we’re taking a shortcut—but no, what we’re really doing is **cutting short our humanity**. If we continue down this path, genuineness will become a relic of the past.

Regardless of our job post, let us all spend some time thinking about where we started our careers from. Let us all be grateful to our senior employers who instilled in us the skills that we possess today. And think for a second, how things would have gone if they had not spent time nurturing us. Lending a helping hand is a cyclic process. When we lend a helping hand to someone in need, we get a favor from someone else whom we least expected.

Perhaps it’s not the extra hours you put in, but the moments when you lend a hand that leave a lasting impression. Life is unpredictable — help can come from unexpected places. A stranger today could be the one who helps you in a moment of crisis tomorrow. In the end, it’s the **human connections** we build, not just our accomplishments, that truly shape our journey.

For some, realization might come after reading this article. For some, after an incident hits them hard. Life is too short, but success and desires are endless. So, let’s strive to be better—not just as partners, parents, employers, or employees, but as human beings. **Let’s make humanity our true identity.**
